Refer: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/links.html#linkTypes

New link types that are to be implemented by web browsers are to be added to this standard. The remainder can be registered as extensions.

Link type	Effect on...	body-ok	Has `Link` processing	Brief description
link	a and area	form
alternate	Hyperlink	not allowed	·	·	Gives alternate representations of the current document.
canonical	Hyperlink	not allowed	·	·	Gives the preferred URL for the current document.
author	Hyperlink	not allowed	·	·	Gives a link to the author of the current document or article.
bookmark	not allowed	Hyperlink	not allowed	·	·	Gives the permalink for the nearest ancestor section.
dns-prefetch	External Resource	not allowed	Yes	·	Specifies that the user agent should preemptively perform DNS resolution for the target resource's origin.
expect	Internal Resource	not allowed	·	·	Expect an element with the target ID to appear in the current document.
external	not allowed	Annotation	·	·	Indicates that the referenced document is not part of the same site as the current document.
help	Hyperlink	·	·	Provides a link to context-sensitive help.
icon	External Resource	not allowed	·	·	Imports an icon to represent the current document.
manifest	External Resource	not allowed	·	·	Imports or links to an application manifest. [MANIFEST]
modulepreload	External Resource	not allowed	Yes	·	Specifies that the user agent must preemptively fetch the module script and store it in the document's module map for later evaluation. Optionally, the module's dependencies can be fetched as well.
license	Hyperlink	·	·	Indicates that the main content of the current document is covered by the copyright license described by the referenced document.
next	Hyperlink	·	·	Indicates that the current document is a part of a series, and that the next document in the series is the referenced document.
nofollow	not allowed	Annotation	·	·	Indicates that the current document's original author or publisher does not endorse the referenced document.
noopener	not allowed	Annotation	·	·	Creates a top-level traversable with a non-auxiliary browsing context if the hyperlink would otherwise create one that was auxiliary (i.e., has an appropriate target attribute value).
noreferrer	not allowed	Annotation	·	·	No `Referer` (sic) header will be included. Additionally, has the same effect as noopener.
opener	not allowed	Annotation	·	·	Creates an auxiliary browsing context if the hyperlink would otherwise create a top-level traversable with a non-auxiliary browsing context (i.e., has "_blank" as target attribute value).
pingback	External Resource	not allowed	Yes	·	Gives the address of the pingback server that handles pingbacks to the current document.
preconnect	External Resource	not allowed	Yes	Yes	Specifies that the user agent should preemptively connect to the target resource's origin.
prefetch	External Resource	not allowed	Yes	·	Specifies that the user agent should preemptively fetch and cache the target resource as it is likely to be required for a followup navigation.
preload	External Resource	not allowed	Yes	Yes	Specifies that the user agent must preemptively fetch and cache the target resource for current navigation according to the potential destination given by the as attribute (and the priority associated with the corresponding destination).
prev	Hyperlink	·	·	Indicates that the current document is a part of a series, and that the previous document in the series is the referenced document.
privacy-policy	Hyperlink	not allowed	·	·	Gives a link to information about the data collection and usage practices that apply to the current document.
search	Hyperlink	·	·	Gives a link to a resource that can be used to search through the current document and its related pages.
stylesheet	External Resource	not allowed	Yes	·	Imports a style sheet.
tag	not allowed	Hyperlink	not allowed	·	·	Gives a tag (identified by the given address) that applies to the current document.
terms-of-service	Hyperlink	not allowed	·	·	Gives a link to information about the agreements between the current document's provider and users who wish to use the current document.

