Routing all client traffic (including web-traffic) through the VPN
Overview

By default, when an OpenVPN client is active, only network traffic to and from
the OpenVPN server site will pass over the VPN. General web browsing, for
example, will be accomplished with direct connections that bypass the VPN.

In certain cases this behavior might not be desirable -- you might want a VPN
client to tunnel all network traffic through the VPN, including general
internet web browsing. While this type of VPN configuration will exact a
performance penalty on the client, it gives the VPN administrator more control
over security policies when a client is simultaneously connected to both the
public internet and the VPN at the same time.
Implementation

Add the following directive to the server configuration file:

push "redirect-gateway def1"

If your VPN setup is over a wireless network, where all clients and the
server are on the same wireless subnet, add the local flag:

 $ push "redirect-gateway local def1"

Pushing the redirect-gateway option to clients will cause all IP
network traffic originating on client machines to pass through the
OpenVPN server. The server will need to be configured to deal with
this traffic somehow, such as by NATing it to the internet, or routing
it through the server site's HTTP proxy.

On Linux, you could use a command such as this to NAT the VPN client
traffic to the internet:

 $ iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -s 10.8.0.0/24 -o eth0 -j
MASQUERADE

This command assumes that the VPN subnet is 10.8.0.0/24 (taken
from the server directive in the OpenVPN server configuration) and
that the local ethernet interface is eth0.

When redirect-gateway is used, OpenVPN clients will route DNS
queries through the VPN, and the VPN server will need handle them.
This can be accomplished by pushing a DNS server address to
connecting clients which will replace their normal DNS server
settings during the time that the VPN is active. For example:

 $ push "dhcp-option DNS 10.8.0.1"

will configure Windows clients (or non-Windows clients with
some extra server-side scripting) to use 10.8.0.1 as their DNS
server. Any address which is reachable from clients may be
used as the DNS server address.


Refs: 
1) https://openvpn.net/community-resources/how-to/
2) https://openvpn.net/community-resources/reference-manual-for-openvpn-2-0/
